---
title: "Why Ruby?"
id: slide-094
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/re-interpreting-data/rubyconf-2023/slides/053.png
  :image_alt: 'text: Why Ruby?'
  :image_title: 'Slide 94: Why Ruby?'
---
Ok, let’s start with the easy answer; why ruby?

We don’t normally do this kind of thing in a language like ruby.  Bit and byte manipulation is pretty unwieldy, shouldn’t you use C?

Probably, but ruby is the language I know best, and I was able to get fast feedback by using ruby (although that didn’t stop me breaking it this morning apparently).  That feels important to me when playing about with these kinds of toys and silly ideas.

That’s really my point here: pick a tool you know and are comfortable with in order to explore and learn.  If, like me, you’re learning all about bit and byte manipulation and file formats, best not to _also_ be learning about a new programming language at the same time.  Of course, the flip side is that if you _are_ learning a new programming language, you should re-implement a problem you’ve already solved and learn how to do it in the idioms and libraries of your new language.

I’ll let you into a little secret, that’s exactly what I did with this code.  The first version of the WAV file generator was written in 2004 when I was a Python programmer. In 2007 I became a ruby programmer and I decided to port my little thing over to ruby to try and learn some more idioms.  Although it’s a good job we glided over the BMP generator because it’s clear I didn’t learn _very_ many ruby idioms when I did it.

*[WAV]: Waveform Audio File Format
*[BMP]: Bitmap
