---
title: |
  The talon login window - UI layout code

  *[UI]: User Interface
id: slide-025
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/tying-your-shoes/slides/025.jpg
  :image_alt: 'A snippet of code showing how to build the fields and buttons on the
    talon log in screen. code: https://gist.github.com/h-lame/caaf6d8a2c91b3cce8fea05cc6b25d7a#file-slide-25-the-talon-login-window-ui-layout-code-rb'
  :image_title: 'Slide 25: The talon login window - UI layout code'
  :caption: "[Gist for code in slide](https://gist.github.com/h-lame/caaf6d8a2c91b3cce8fea05cc6b25d7a#file-slide-25-the-talon-login-window-ui-layout-code-rb)\n"
---
We’ve already seen the `title` and `stack`, so here’s the rest of it.  Is this what you thought it would be?  Give yourself a clap on the back if you did.  The only weird things are the extra `stack`s around the `para`s to act as the labels.  Text elements are truly inline and don’t have specifiable widths; it's not just because they’re in a `flow` here.

Other interesting things to note about this code:

1. the `edit_line` - this is how you get a text box
1. the negative `width`s on the text box, what this means is be 100% of the box wide minus `170px`.  Because this is in a `flow`, it allows us to combine stacks and other “wide-able” elements to create single “layer” of elements in the `flow`.
1. the `button` - the block passed to the `button` is what will happen when the `button` is clicked.  This is how you add event handlers to things in Shoes.  Anyone who has written GUI event handling code in java will surely appreciate this brevity.
1. For the first time I’m doing something with the results of these methods that create objects.  For both the user and password edit boxes I’m assigning them to instance variables (remember, everything in Shoes is evaluated in the context of `Shoes.app`, so these are instance variables available to the whole app).  Every method in Shoes returns the object you’re creating, even things like background.


*[GUIs]: Graphical User Interface
*[GUI]: Graphical User Interface
