---
title: members benefits
id: slide-023
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/being-part-of-a-community/slides/023.png
  :image_alt: 'text: members benefits'
  :image_title: 'Slide 23: members benefits'
---
So that’s what LRUG is, why should you get involved?

There’s the learning stuff I talked about earlier.  Even if a talk isn’t immediately relevant to your current project, it might be next month, or next year.  Or it might twist some lock in your brain and let you see your current project in a different light.

There’s also the announcements bit at the start.  I call it announcements, but it’s really the “we’re hiring” section.  Even if people don’t announce that they’re hiring, when you talk to them in the pub you’ll find that most people won’t turn away a job applicant.  The ruby scene is incredibly under-staffed.

The pub bit after a meeting is a great networking event and I mean that in the least shabby, trading-business-cards sense, and more in the getting to know people that you might work with in a couple of years time sense.

Even if you don’t come to the meetings (but you should), sign up to the mailing list.  The traffic is pretty low, but a fairly decent chunk of it is tagged `[JOBS]` and there are loads of people recruiting.  Yes you’re up against everyone else on the mailing list, but the reason so many people are hiring is because there aren’t enough rubyists to go round!  You’ve got a good chance at any of these jobs.


*[LRUGs]: London Ruby User Group
*[LRUG]: London Ruby User Group
