---
title: Do you want a flake with that?
id: slide-001
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/do-you-want-a-flake-with-that/slides/001.png
  :image_alt: 'text: Do you want a flake with that?; Murray Steele @ LRUG April 8th 2024, @hlame@ruby.social, Cleo'
  :image_title: 'Slide 1: Do you want a flake with that?'
---
Hello!

I am here to talk to you about flaky tests.

I am an engineering manager at [Cleo](https://meetcleo.com). We're hiring, so talk to me after if that's interesting.  We are an AI coach for financial health.

Of interest today, I guess, is that we have a rails monolith, that we ship to multiple times a day, and flaky tests really get in the way of shipping because they stop you from ... shipping, because CI is like "No!  It's red mate!  You can't."

This is a talk I gave internally at a backend dev day, not January, but the previous January.  Some of it _might_ be Cleo specific, but I don't really think it is.

Our context is, as I said, it's a rails monolith that mostly has no UI, because we write APIs that are consumed by a react native app.  The tests that I'm talking about are for the rails monolith -- we don't really have much in the way of full end to end, "touch the app and make it talk to the backend" style tests. We don't have many of them, so most of what I'm talking about is unit style testing, not integration or system style testing.

We also use [minitest](https://github.com/minitest/minitest), most of you probably use [RSpec](https://rspec.info).  The techniques are not really that different, but that does provide some context.

And we probably use some gems to help us that you don't.  But again, I think the techniques are generally applicable.

*[CI]: Continuous Integration
*[UI]: User Interface
*[APIs]: Application Programming Interfaces
