---
title: Other tests - changes to the database
id: slide-012
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/do-you-want-a-flake-with-that/slides/012.png
  :image_alt: 'text: 1. Other tests - changes to the database; Fixed with: transactions; database_cleaner gem; fixtures or factories to isolate the world'
  :image_title: 'Slide 11: Other tests - changes to the database'
---
If you write to the database in your test, and you don't undo that change, the next test that's running might break, because you expect there to be a single transaction in your database.

That's a poor choice of words.  We at Cleo work in finance so we care about transactions meaning moving money around. But also, I'm trying to talk about database transactions.  Cool.

So in one test you write a ... blog post ... to the database.  In your next test you expect there to be no blog posts in the database, and you write a blog post to the database, and then you say, "Hey, this should now have meant there's only one blog post in the database", but because you didn't clean up the first one there are, in fact, 2 blog posts in the database, and your test fails.

So obviously, we can kind of fix that with things that come out of the box with a rails app like [wrapping everything in a transaction](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/testing.html#testing-parallel-transactions): all your tests run in a transaction, then writes into the database are not impacted between test one and test two.

You could use [the database cleaner gem](https://github.com/DatabaseCleaner/database_cleaner) to give you a bit more fine-grained control over how you deal with the database. You may want a completely empty database, or you might want to use [fixtures](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/testing.html#the-low-down-on-fixtures) or [factories](https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_bot) to completely isolate the world and say, "I care about this shape of data being in at the start of my world setup, and I'll use transactions and database cleaner to make sure that that is true at the start of every single test".
