---
title: Other tests - changes to in-memory objects
id: slide-016
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/do-you-want-a-flake-with-that/slides/016.png
  :image_alt: 'text: 1. Other tests - changes to in-memory objects; (e.g. state in singletons, memorized value); Fixed with: stubbing; undoing those changes in teardown; using memery gem (or others) that support reset; or manual; def reset_var(obj, name); obj.remove_instance_variable("@#{name}") if obj.instance_variable_defined? "@#{name}"; end'
  :image_title: 'Slide 16: Other tests - changes to in-memory objects'
---
And similarly, maybe you've got some in-memory objects like [`Singleton`s](https://ruby-doc.org/3.3.1/stdlibs/singleton/Singleton.html) or memoized values on your objects that if you set it in one of your tests, and then don't remember to unset it, in your next test the system behaves in a way that you don't expect it to because of that.

So, again, we fix this by stubbing the object to make it behave in your test, regardless of the implementation or any stored data, _exactly_ how you want it.  Or ... you undo those memoized changes in `teardown`.

Maybe you are smart, and you use a gem like [memery](https://github.com/tycooon/memery) or [memoist](https://github.com/matthewrudy/memoist), or any number of other things for doing memoization.  It will probably have some function to clear the memoised cache of your object.  Make sure you call that in your `teardown`s.

Or do something awful yourself and create a method for resetting these variables like the `reset_var` defined here, where you assume that your variables all have the right name, and they've been stored in an instance variable. And you just reach in and kick them out in your own `teardown` method.

Sometimes all of the things I've mentioned might combine in weird ways, such as: I have an environment variable and I've stubbed that so `ENV` is some value for the duration of this test and I've reset `ENV` after.  But... maybe I'm memoizing the value of `ENV` in some `Singleton` object, so when I stub an `ENV` change here, I've forgotten to stub the memoization of the `ENV` value in some other part of the system.  You've got to think about how these might combine in fun and annoying ways.
