---
title: External systems - network calls
id: slide-024
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/do-you-want-a-flake-with-that/slides/024.png
  :image_alt: "text: 3. External systems - network calls; If we have to talk to an external system over the network, that can break in so many ways; Fixed with: stubbing and closing down the network; For http we can use the webmock or vcr gems to stub responses; or for browser-driving tests you might want puffing-billy to block the browser itself; Manual stubs for other network connection types (but it's all http these days, right?)"
  :image_title: 'Slide 24: External systems - network calls'
---
The most obvious one is, we have to make some network calls to a service like
we're gonna download a file from S3.  99% of the time that's going to be fine.
But that 1% of the time is, no doubt, when you're trying to ship an important thing to production and S3 has gone down. And that's maybe _why_ you're trying to ship an important thing to production. And yet your tests fail because _they're_ talking to S3. Don't do that.

We can stub that and close down the whole network. The classic things that you might have heard of are [webmock](https://github.com/bblimke/webmock), or [VCR](https://github.com/vcr/vcr).  Basically, they sit on top of all http communication that your ruby app will make and say, "No!"

With webmock you [manually stub requests](https://github.com/bblimke/webmock?tab=readme-ov-file#stubbing), with [VCR you point at some horrifying YAML files or JSON files](https://github.com/vcr/vcr?tab=readme-ov-file#usage), and it says, "use them". They both do the job, which is to say, "you can't talk to the Internet, talk to these instead."

I said that we're not doing any end-to-end browser testing or things like that, but I have in the past written apps that did that.  They failed because our browser was trying to download Google analytics scripts and the browser would fail, and then the _test_ would fail.

There's [a neat little gem called Puffing Billy](https://github.com/oesmith/puffing-billy) with a cool steam engine as a logo.  It's basically a proxy that you put in place of your like capybara, browser thing, or selenium browser, and basically say, "Nope, you're not allowed to talk to the internet.  You, browser, talk through me, and I only let you talk to local host or prescribed things". You've put in place webmock for an actual browser.  Useful if you're doing that kind of testing.

I assume that not everything you do is talking over http, which is a real shame, because I don't know the names of any gems that will help you stub non-http requests.  But you could probably look at the webmock source and find and replace `Net::Http` with `Net::Ftp`, or `Net::Ssh` or ... `Net::Gopher`. I don't know?  If you're using gopher you're on your own, I'm really sorry.

But yeah, like, stub out other network calls the same way that we stub everything else to make it consistent and make it clear.

*[YAML]: Yet Another Markup Language
*[JSON]: JavaScript Object Notation
