---
title: Replicate v2
id: slide-030
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/do-you-want-a-flake-with-that/slides/030.mp4
  :image_alt: 'A video plays showing more of the CircleCI interface, showing how we find and copy the seed value and list of tests to run in order to run them locally; text: Replicate v2; Find the entire failing step and run that locally; You want the seed value and the test files; $ bundle exec rails test --seed [PASTE SEED VALUE] [PASTE A LOT OF FILENAMES HERE]'
  :image_title: 'Slide 30: Replicate v2'
---
I mean, maybe you just run out a few times and it'll fail. And you're like, "Okay, cool".  But life's not often like that.

Actually, what you're going to want is the `seed` value.  You have to run the whole suite, and you want the seed value to run it in the same random order that your test suite used when it flaked on CI.

Most test suites run in a random order.  If your test suites are _not_ running in a random order, congratulations, you've got rid of one whole category of problems with flaky tests.  But you've probably given yourself some other category of flaky tests, [which is that they're dependent](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/minitest/Minitest/Test#i_suck_and_my_tests_are_order_dependent!-class_method). That's a different talk.

You're going to get a seed value and you're going to want to get the list of tests that actually ran.

Our test suite is, _humble brag_, pretty big, so we split it across 8 runners on CI, which means only an 8th of the test suite runs on every instance.  So if I just tried to take the seed value and run the entire test suite, it wouldn't run in the same random order as CI had run it.  So I need to know the exact set of things that ran.

What I do is just go and copy and paste the list of tests and then paste them into a text file, turn that into a terminal command, then paste that into my terminal.  My terminal doesn't like that because it's a massive command, but it does actually run.

Then you can replicate it locally with the same seed value as CI, and hopefully.
you've got a reproducible test case. So now, if you're like us you've only got an eighth of the test suite to reason about rather than _all_ of the test suite. So thank you, and good night I have saved you seven 8ths of your life.

No, there's more.

*[CI]: Continuous Integration
