---
title: minitest-bisect
id: slide-031
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/do-you-want-a-flake-with-that/slides/031.png
  :image_alt: 'text: minitest-bisect; $ bundle add minitest-bisect; $ bundle exec minitest_bisect --seed [CI SEED VALUE] -Itest [LIST OF TEST FILES FROM CI]; ⏳Time passes⌛️;Final reproduction: Run options: --seed [CI SEED VALUE] -n "[MINITEST NOMENCLATURE FOR SUBSET OF TESTS TO RUN]"; 🎉'
  :image_title: 'Slide 31: minitest-bisect'
---
Once you have worked out what are the actual tests that CI ran, and you've got a failing case locally using a particular seed value and a particular set of tests, then you can feed that into [`minitest-bisect`](https://github.com/minitest/minitest-bisect). There is [an RSpec version of this, in fact, I think it's baked in](https://rspec.info/features/3-13/rspec-core/command-line/bisect/). So you don't need a separate gem.  RSpec thinking about user experience. Who would have thought?

So you feed all that into `minitest-bisect`:

* you pass in the seed value
* you pass in the list of test files
* you press return,

Then you go about your life for _hours_.  Probably it is going to take some time, because what this is going to do first is -- it's going to run your tests to establish that it definitely fails.  Then it's going to do a binary search over the total number of tests that were run to work out what is the minimum reproducible case.  And hopefully, what this means is you get down to:

* run this test,
* then this test,
* and then the one that you were told by CI is flaky will fail.

And that gets you from an 8th of the test suite to 2, _maybe_ 3 tests.  Depending on how slow an 8th of your test suite is, this could take some time.  It's the kind of thing to do towards the end of the day; you hit return and you come back to it in the morning.  If you're lucky it does actually give you a reproducible test case, because I am not going to lie, I have done this, gone away and come back like the next day, and it's still like "nah mate, can't sort this one".  But most of the time this will get you somewhere, and then...

*[CI]: Continuous Integration
