---
title: Action Group
id: slide-016
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/the-long-road-to-ruby-3-0-vs-the-short-road-to-ruby-3-1/slides/016.png
  :image_alt: "3 points explaining what an action group is, 1: has a purpose, 2: is regular, 3: is contained, text: action group, 1: Purpose, A singular focus, 2: Regular, Defined meetup cadence, action checkins, 3: Contained, Specific slack channels + notion pages, Smaller groups - ways to get involved not dominated by senior players"
  :image_title: 'Slide 16: Action Group'
---
We use action groups quite a lot at Cleo.  We have our squads working on squad work and action groups are what we use to solve that "tragedy of the commons" thing of a cross-cutting thing that will solve a problem for the whole team, but no single squad is going to be on the hook to actually do it.

For us an action group is something that has a singular focus.  We've used it for:

* creating better on boarding experience for engineers
* a ruby 3 upgrade
* fixing an auth problem between the frontend and the backend

Things that help everyone but no one squad is in charge of.  It's also important that these things have a finish state.  We know when they're done, they're not just going to run on forever.

It's important that they're regular.  We commit to doing something on specific cadence. That could be every couple days, that could be every week, every two weeks, every month, whatever it is, but we commit to _doing something_.  Your squad is not gonna miss you for one hour a week.  Your squad is not going to miss you for one hour every two weeks.  So you can always make some progress and we commit to being there.  And we check in on what we're doing.  We make sure that ... what did we say we were going to do, did we actually do it?

And the last thing is that they are contained.  In the first PR that we raised we spoke about it in our general-purpose tech slack channel.  This one we created its own slack channel for it, so it didn't get lost in the thousands of things we say to each other every day.  It is in a special place, so that if you want to know what's going on with the ruby 3 upgrade you go to the ruby 3 upgrade slack channel.  If you want to know what's going on with the frontend auth problem you go to the frontend auth slack channel.  They're also smaller groups.  There are maybe five people who say "I will commit to doing this" rather than 23 people who say "we should definitely do something about this" but no one actually does it.  When there's five people it's a lot easier to be guilted into actually making progress.

*[PR]: Pull Request
