---
title: Some gotchas
id: slide-021
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/the-long-road-to-ruby-3-0-vs-the-short-road-to-ruby-3-1/slides/021.png
  :image_alt: "3 points explaining the details of 3 different gems that caused us some pain: postgres, apipie, paperclip; text: some gotchas, 1: postgres, v1.1 not ruby 3 compatible, v1.3 (current at the time) not ruby 2.7 compatible, v1.2 worked with both (with dep warnings), 2: apipie, No ruby 3 fix merged upstream - but there was a PR for it, Applied the fix to our own fork, By the time we merged a different fix had landed so we deleted our fork, 3: paperclip, Deprecated long ago in favour of activestorage, Found a community supported fork"
  :image_title: 'Slide 21: Some gotchas'
---
There were some just gotchas about this process.

[`postgres`](https://github.com/ged/ruby-pg).  We were using the postgres gem and using v1.1 which was not ruby 3 compatible.  At the time we just did a `bundle update` but v1.3, which was current, is not ruby 2.7 compatible.  Luckily v1.2 also exists and worked on both, with a bunch of deprecation warnings, but that was enough for us to make progress.  We'll deal with those after, as a remember for us to have to upgrade to v1.3 once we shipped ruby 3 to get rid of the dep warning.

We use a gem call [`apipie`](https://github.com/Apipie/apipie-rails) which is for helping us generate swagger docs so that our frontend colleagues can understand our APIs via a DSL.  It didn't work with ruby 3.  It didn't have a fix for ruby 3 at the time, but did have a PR that was open that said it fixed it.  So we forked it,  pointed our `gemfile` at our fork, applied the fix and shipped it.  Luckily by the time we actually merged ruby 3 there was a better fix that was released for apipie, so we just got rid of our fork and shipped that.

And then [`paperclip`](https://github.com/thoughtbot/paperclip) which had been [deprecated for a long time](https://thoughtbot.com/blog/closing-the-trombone).  Paperclip is a file upload solution.  It had been deprecated for a long time in favour of rails' own "you should use activestorage for this".  We always knew we would have to deal with that at some point, but file uploading is not an important part of our app so we never dedicated time to doing it.  Luckily we didn't have to dedicate time to doing at this time either! There is [a community fork](https://github.com/kreeti/kt-paperclip) that says: "cool, you've deprecated it but maybe it could run on ruby 3 and still be deprecated?".  So we switched to that.

These three things point out the beauty of the rails and ruby gem ecosystem.  There's always someone else who has done the work, you just have to choose your risk.  Which work do you choose?

* the community fork
* the unapplied fix
* the previous version that you hope doesn't have a security problem

As long as you make a note of these things and signal them in your `Gemfile` you'll be alright.

*[APIs]: Application Programming Interface
*[DSL]: Domain Specific Language
*[PR]: Pull Request
