---
title: Planning to deploy
id: slide-023
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/the-long-road-to-ruby-3-0-vs-the-short-road-to-ruby-3-1/slides/023.png
  :image_alt: '3 points explaining our process for working out if we could deploy the upgrade 1 - testing it worked, 2 - looking for more deprecation warnings, 3 - telling peopel about it; text: Planning to deploy, 1: Testing, Using our staging environments to test the app, 2: Deprecation warnings, Running production with `RUBYOPT=-W:deprecated` and reading logs, 3: Letting people know, install ruby 3.0.4, check that FE infrastructure still works'
  :image_title: 'Slide 23: Planning to deploy'
---
Rather than just hitting merge, because we have continuous deployment,  if we hit merge on a branch, it goes onto main, time passes, and then it's on production -- no human involved!  We didn't really want to just deploy it, just in case.

So we decided to do some more robust testing.  We put the branch on one of our staging environments and told all the dev teams and their product owners: "Go and poke this.  Poke your critical path flows.  Give it a good checking over, make sure it works."

We turned on the deprecation warnings in production so that ruby 2.7 would give us all of the information about all the ruby 3 things that we haven't done yet.  Because although that was on by default in ruby 2.7.0, it was off by default because [it was too noisy in ruby 2.7.2](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/news/2020/10/02/ruby-2-7-2-released/) and we were running ruby 2.7.6, so we weren't getting them by default.  We turned them on and started tailing our logs.  Luckily, because of all work we'd done, there weren't that many so we didn't have much more to fix.

And most importantly we let people know we were doing this.  We said, "We are ready to deploy ruby 3, you probably want to install ruby 3, so that when we do it's smooth for you!"  We checked in with our frontend colleagues to make sure that all of their infrastructure still worked, because we were focused on getting the app booting, they have to build a native app using [`cocoapods`](https://cocoapods.org) and [`fastlane`](https://fastlane.tools) which is ruby infrastructure.  That still needed to work for them, and as a bunch of backend nerds we didn't really know how that works, so we just hoped it did.  We got in touch and, _luckily_, we were right -- it did just work!  So we didn't have to do anything!

*[FE]: Frontend
