---
title: Postmortem
id: slide-028
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/the-long-road-to-ruby-3-0-vs-the-short-road-to-ruby-3-1/slides/028.png
  :image_alt: 'a screengrab of the postmortem doc we wrote to learn from the 3.1 rollout; text: Postmortem, When the dust settles, reflect on what went wrong and dig into the root causes so we can learn how to be better, The outcomes were: A handful of minor quality of life fixes that might help specifics from this time around, Write an upgrading [major infrastructure] playbook for future upgrades'
  :image_title: 'Slide 28: Postmortem'
---
A a week later, the dust had settled:

* we had fixed ruby 3.1
* we had apologised to our colleagues
* we had fixed the local build problems
* we were still, I think, debating rubocop, but we were okay with that

We ran a postmortem on the process.  We like running postmortems at Cleo.  If there's anything that we think, "hmm that could've gone a bit better," we run a postmortem.  We have a template, we run through it.  Basically the idea is... no blame, but what went wrong and how do we learn from this and get better?

And so, fundamentally what came out of this was a bunch of minor quality of life fixes that might help specifics for this time round if they happened again:

* we would make sure rubocop didn't run if you weren't actually changing any ruby files so that our frontend colleagues weren't getting a problem with it
* we put the ruby version into the cache key on CI, so that problem when away

But a major one was we decided that we would write an "upgrading ruby ..." and then actually, what if you're upgrading rails or what if you're upgrading react-native ... so "upgrading any major infrastructure" playbook with hints about what you should do, who you should talk to, how you should test it.  For people doing future upgrades.  But as I said, we are a start-up so we have deferred _actually_ writing it until the next time we do one of these because there's nothing like just-in-time compilation.

*[CI]: Continuous Integration
