---
title: Problem Gems
id: slide-009
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/the-long-road-to-ruby-3-0-vs-the-short-road-to-ruby-3-1/slides/009.png
  :image_alt: "3 points outlining the different types of problems we had with gems 1 - gems with a simple version bump, 2 - gems with a complex version bump, 3 - gems with no version bump (there is a dead pig graphic here to say how we feel about that), text: Problem Gems, 1: Simple version bump, Review just in case 'semver' doesn't apply, 2: Complex version bump, Compilation or other gem incompatibility, 3: no version bump"
  :image_title: 'Slide 9: Problem Gems'
---
And that is what I'm gonna talk to you about.

The basic problem is gems.  We use a lot of gems and we couldn't be where we are without using a lot of gems.  So we had to identify the ones that didn't work and we had to break them down into three basic categories.

The first is the gems that just needed a simple version bump to say "oh this will now work with ruby 3".  [Semver](https://semver.org) may or may not exist, but you _have_ to review your dependencies.  We couldn't just bump it and be like "Yep! all fine!", we wanted to review what was actually changing between version one that worked with ruby 2 and version two that worked with ruby 3.  To make sure it wasn't just a ruby s fix, it may have also included a whole bunch of extra stuff or breaking changes.

Then there were ones that required a more complex version bump.  Yes, we had to do all that "review the semver changes", but there were compilation problems or they had incompatibility with other gems.  It was fine on the version we were on, but when we upgraded ... oh that one also needs you to bump this one.  So they were a bit more gnarly to deal with.

And then there were the ones that flat out did not work with ruby 3.0, but also there was no version ... yet? (he said optimistically) that did work with ruby 3.0.  So we had to decide what to do with with them.

We had a list of gems that didn't work.  We wrote down a list of them.  We spoke about them in our general-purpose channels for devs and said "Can you investigate that one and upgrade it?  And can you investigate that one and upgrade it?".

* we had a list
* people decided to do stuff
* we started making progress

Eventually we got to a point where the app _booted_.  That meant we could run our test suite.  CI is running our test suite on ruby 3, it's not _good_, but we have got some progress.  It's now running on ruby 3, albeit throwing a load of errors.

*[CI]: Continuous Integration
