---
title: 'Data padding in ruby #2'
id: slide-023
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/re-interpreting-data/lrug-jan-2020/slides/023.png
  :image_alt: 'Snippet of code showing how we write all the remaining pixel and square
    padding ytes to complete the image data.  source: https://github.com/h-lame/stegosaurus/blob/68170f347ed0f3662ccfd03e892e5a30fc505fc0/lib/stegosaurus/bumps.rb#L243-L262'
  :image_title:
  :caption: "[Source for code in slide](https://github.com/h-lame/stegosaurus/blob/68170f347ed0f3662ccfd03e892e5a30fc505fc0/lib/stegosaurus/bumps.rb#L243-L262)<%
    fnrf 3 %>\n"
---
At the end of the code in the last slide we had a potentially incomplete scan line:

1. We’re missing the padding bytes to make sure we complete the last pixel we made from the data at the end of the file.
1. We’re missing the padding pixels we need to make sure the image is rectangular.

Of course, all of those pixels need to be added as complete scan lines too.  It’s also possible that the padding pixels are more than a single scan line, so we need to cater for that when we write those bytes.

For our `100` byte file, each row is `6` pixels, which means `18` bytes.  We can write `5` complete rows, consuming `90` bytes, but then we only have `10` bytes for our last row, which isn’t complete.  To finish this row we have to:

1. Write `"\x00\x00"` as the `final_pixel_pad_bytes` to complete the last pixel because `10` pixels is `3.333` pixels so we need `2` bytes to complete that last pixel.  This gives us `12` bytes.
1. Write `"\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x000"` as the `last_data_padding` to complete the pixel data for the last row constructed from the file because `12` bytes is only `4` pixels so we need those extra `6` bytes to give us `2` extra pixels to make our `6` pixel row. This gives us `18` bytes.
1. Write `"\x00\x00"` as the `line_pad` to complete the final scan line because `18` bytes isn’t a factor of `4` so we need to add `2` bytes to get us to `20` which *is* a factor of `4`.

In this case, all our `pad_pixels` are added to the last scan line that contains bytes from the data file.  It’s possible we need to add them as a complete scan line of their own, or split them across both the last data scan line, and a final padding scan line.

All this is annoying, but not particularly hard.  It is a stark contrast to the WAV file where we could just read the size of the source file to generate the header and then prepend that onto the raw `1`s and `0`s of the source file with no manipulation.
