---
title: attachment processing
id: slide-026
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/my-first-ruby/slides/026.png
  :image_alt: 'A snippet of the code for processing attachments; code: https://gist.github.com/h-lame/1f032a1f8181fe220d6f1c2c4d98f64e#file-slide-26-attachment-processing-fragment-rb'
  :image_title: 'Slide 26: attachment processing'
  :caption: "[Gist for code in slide](https://gist.github.com/h-lame/1f032a1f8181fe220d6f1c2c4d98f64e#file-slide-26-attachment-processing-fragment-rb)\n"
---
The next bit of code to talk about is this, it’s a chunk of the attachment processing method.

We get here if the message is multipart, and this fragment is run on each part.

We extract and store all the attachments, but we also remove them entirely if they are over a certain size

This code is actually not too shabby.  It’s quite long because there are loads of edge-cases.  Over the years, this is the part of the code that’s seen the most changes.  Turns out multipart mime messages are hard and you can nest things and it gets weird.  Whatever your naïve approach is, it’s going to crumble as people send richer and richer messages from more and more esoteric mail clients.  In fact I had to fix a bug in it only a month ago, someone’s mail client started sending nested multipart messages with `multipart/alternative`.

What you’re looking at is what the code used to look like.  Some of you may already have noticed the bug.

If the part of the mail we’re dealing with didn’t have a filename (such as `multipart/alternative` which is effectively nesting another set of parts), then our code logs the error but then blindly continued on assuming that it has a filename it can do something with.  It never came to bite us until someone sent a `multipart/alternative` message.

This is something I hope would have been fixed by [TDD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development).  With TDD I’d probably have mocked the `log` or `file.size` calls and built the function up slowly.  But, I may not have caught it with TDD because I might never have thought to try out a nested multipart file.

The other thing it shows is that the real world will always conspire to break your code.  If I had tests though I probably would have been able to feed the mail that broke it into the test suite and find out what tests suddenly failed.


*[TDDs]: Test Driven Development
*[TDD]: Test Driven Development
