---
title: "“controllers”"
id: slide-038
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/my-first-ruby/slides/038.jpg
  :image_alt: 'A hand-drawn diagram of the 3 “controllers” in the system: UserUpdater,
    LoginHandler, ArchiveDisplayer;'
  :image_title: 'Slide 38: “controllers”'
---
You’ll have noticed that I talk about `LoginHandler`.  Narf doesn’t give you any controller framework, so we came up with our own.  There are 3 handlers:

1. `LoginHandler` - this deals with user sessions
1. `UserUpdater` - this deals with letting the user manipulate their details from the user database
1. `ArchiveDisplayer` - this deals with showing archived messages

They all have the same constructor: takes the `Web` object and the path to the fucknut root. They all have a `.do` method which looks at the `cmd` param of the `Web` object and acts accordingly.  For example if the `cmd` is `'showmsg'` in the `ArchiveDisplayer`, it finds the requested message and displays it.  If the `cmd` is `'update'` in the `UserUpdater` it fetches the current user’s details and updates them based on the `POST`ed params.

That’s where consistency ends though.  `LoginHandler` returns a `Session` object (our own wrapper to a couple of methods on `Web`) and has other methods for rendering templates like `showLogin` above.  For the other 2 calling `.do` is effectively an action endpoint and that handler will deal with everything from then on.

It’s clear that `LoginHandler` and the other 2 aren’t really the same sort of thing, and yet I’ve made them look the same.  The fact that I was using them differently meant I should have realised that they were different things, or that I was doing something else wrong.  A `LoginHandler` could easily have acted like the other 2 (where `.do` is a render endpoint) if I’d had some other object that deals with is the user logged in or not.  Frameworks give you rules and consistency, when you go it alone without much thought you end up with messes like this.

Also, looking at the code for the main handler script and these other `cmd` handlers I’m amazed at how much plumbing has gone into *my* code to determine what to do based on the params, as opposed to actually doing it.  With a higher level abstraction (like rails or sinatra routing) I can get on with saying: “this url means this code gets run”.

