---
title: talk about code
id: slide-008
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/being-part-of-a-community/slides/008.png
  :image_alt: 'text: talk about code'
  :image_title: 'Slide 8: talk about code'
---
As a developer you should get used to being able to talk about your code too.

Many times I’ve been stuck on a problem, called over someone for help, and as I’m talking it through with them I realise the solution without them saying anything.  This isn’t because I’m some super genius; it’s because the first thing you do when describing a problem to someone else is work it out properly in your own head.  Often we’re just stuck thinking about the wrong thing and explaining to someone else is the best way to step back and see the bigger picture.

Apart from asking for help with something you’re stuck on you need to be comfortable explaining code you’ve written to colleagues who have to work on it next, or explaining an entire app to a new starter.

You’ll want to be able to write about your work on a blog.  Maybe for marketing purposes. Maybe because it’s brand-new-exciting-work.  Maybe because you want to write up something you were proud of, even if you know many other people have done it before you, because it’s the first time *you’ve* done it.  Someone else will find that blog post and it’ll be the first time they’ve ever heard of the thing you did so you might inspire them too.

Finally you should feel confident in getting up and talking about work you’ve done at meetups or internal sessions.  Someone will might say “Oh, that’s wrong”, but don’t worry about it.  Maybe they’re right, maybe they’re wrong, but you’ll have a useful discussion about it with them that you both learn from.
