---
title: build your circle of peers
id: slide-009
slide:
  :image_url: http://assets.h-lame.com/images/talks/being-part-of-a-community/slides/009.png
  :image_alt: 'text: build your circle of peers'
  :image_title: 'Slide 9: build your circle of peers'
---
Pretty much everything I’ve said so far comes down to stuff you do on your own (there is even a technique where you talk through problems with a [rubber-duck](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_duck_debugging) in the place of a real colleague).  What I want to talk about next is the stuff you need others for.

You should have a circle of peers.  You’ll find plenty of find videos, articles, new tools to use on your own, but this will be mostly focussed on what you’re already using and technology you already know.  Your peers will send you the stuff you didn’t know you wanted to look at; the stuff that wasn’t on your radar already.

It’s invaluable to the learning process.  My circle sends me interesting articles to read, they recommend videos to watch, they let me bounce ideas off them, if I’m evaluating a tool I’ve never used before, they might already have opinions about it.  We have great discussions about design and development best practices.

I would be significantly worse at my job if I didn’t have that group around me.  Some of them are friends from uni, some are my colleagues from previous jobs, more are my current colleagues at Unboxed, and then there’s just everyone else I know through involvement in the ruby community from London and around.

So, you need to build that circle.  I suggest that the starting point is the people in this room.  You should definitely be keeping in touch during the this course and afterwards.  It’s good to have a core group with the same experience level as yourself, you’ll have similar concerns and ideas at around the same time, and you’ll know exactly where each other is coming from.

Of course, that’s not enough as you want people more experienced to help you out, and people less experienced to make you look at things in a new way…
